Welcome back.
In this section we're going to install next JS and get our first template.
As you can see, I have put the final version here for our comparison.
The address is IMDB.com 100 JS projects dot com.
As you can see, we have the ability to change the dark mode.
We have the about page and also we have the trending and top rated with the loading effect.
And also we have the ability to search from the movies.
I'm going to go to on the details later inside the projects when we are building these parts, but now
let's just start creating the next JS projects.
The first template.
The first thing we need to do is to search for the next DJs on Google.
So let's go to the Google and search for next JWs.
In the search results.
Let's click on the next DJ's dot org.
With their title next year by Verso.
The React Framework.
This is the official website, as you can see.
This is the website with the documentation and JS 13 is the latest version, but the next JS 13 is still
in the beta and some of the some of the features are not working well.
But I'm going to show you which one is not working or which one is working.
And for the documentation for the next years.
13.
And you need to add a bit to at the URL.
For example, here just you just say better dot next years dot org.
This is going to redirect to the next JS better.
Which is going to use the app directory.
So as you can see from the get started tab, the next year's documentation is divided into two sites.
So first is the next year's app Directory beta, which we are going to use.
This is try out the React server components is streaming new data fishing and more.
But there is another documentation.
Next year is 13 is stable.
This is going to be a stable soon as well.
So we're going to work on this section.
So if you go to the installation tab.
As you can see from the system requirements, we need Node.js version 16.8 or later and some Windows
or Mac machines.
So let's look and test this one by just opening your terminal.
I'm going to use common prompt.
Which is available inside Windows, but you can use any terminal you would like.
And here we can just check the version of the node by just saying no.
Dash V.
My note version.
The version of my note is version 18.13.
But anything above 16.
Point eight and above would be accepted.
And if you don't have this version, you just make sure to go to Node.js website, search it on Google
and go to Node.js on dot org and just install the latest stable version here.
18.13.
Don't install this version which is not stable and maybe make some problem for you.
So that is enough to just need to install it.
And the next thing we need to do, we just go to the installation, we go to the next tab.
So automatic installations as we are using the beta version of next year 13 and we are using app directory,
there is a utility we can use which is MPC's.
Create an app at latest and you need to add dash dash experimental dash app at the end.
If you want to have app directory automatically in your website.
So in our application because we are using app directory, the previous one was using pages directory
instead.
If you are familiar with the next year's 12.
So we need to copy this one and paste it inside a terminal to install our application.
I want to create this application inside my desktop so I go inside my desktop using CD dash disk.
Top.
And I'm going to you inside a folder called Course.
And I'm going to paste the code and create an app at latest.
And this is going to ask me.
Do you want to install the package?
Create next app version 13 .1.5 and I just say yes.
What is the name of our projects?
So you can choose the name.
I just choose.
I am.
TB.
And the next question is.
Would you like to use, TypeScript?
So I don't want to use TypeScript So you can just choose?
No.
And press enter.
Do you, would you like to use SW Link?
SW Link is just the utility in Vsco code that is going to fix your and warn you about your spelling
mistakes for your code.
So I'm going to use this one.
So I just press.
Yes.
And would you like to use CRC directory?
So if in this case you're going to have an extra folder called CRC and the app directory would be inside
this directory.
So I just say yes, you can just say no, it doesn't matter.
It doesn't change your projects, it just makes it more neat and clean.
So we just say yes.
And do you want to use.
Elias.
Elias means you want to have, for example, show the address of the package you just said.
Dot, dot, dot, dot.
Instead of that, you can just create an alias.
So which is going to create all the directories with this sign.
So you just write down at 4/a star.
This is going to create that alias for you.
And this is going to install packages like react, react dom next next font se link and link config
dash next.
The installation process is going to take a while.
So I'm going to stop the video and I'll be back when the installation is completed.
All right.
The installation process has been completed now.
The we can go inside the folder that we have created.
So in my case, I just create a folder called IMDB.
I go inside that one.
Now we can open the Visual Studio code using just code dash, dot and press enter.
You can use any other text editor you prefer.
I'm Visual Studio Code is my favorite text editor because it has a lot of plugins you can add and it's
very fast.
Let me explain you here the folders that the next JS 13 has.
So let me increase the size of this screen a little bit.
All right.
So.
As we choose the option of creating the SRK folder, we have a folder called RC and it has the app directory.
The next is 12.
Didn't have this folder, they only had this pages folder which has the API and also you can add so
your pages here.
But the app directory is different.
App directory has the global CSS for the styling.
It has a hit the GC layout page and page.
That module dot CSS is.
We are using 12 in CSS later.
We are not going to use CSS for styling our project like the one inside the global CSS.
Dan And also we're not using the modular CSS styling.
So so I'm going to delete this file.
And also I'm going to go to inside the Global CSW and select everything and delete all of them.
So later we're going to change this one using 12 CSS.
So the home page for our website would be created by this page page gsx.
So let me decrease the size.
You can see it better.
And if you open it inside, if you open the terminal here inside the Visual Studio Code, you can create
a server with this website using NPM run dev.
So you just write down amp and round Dave and press enter.
This is going to open your website and create a server on local host 3000.
As you can see here, I can just click.
And keep the control and click here.
This is going to open the website inside the.
Browser.
The default browser, which is in my case, is Chrome.
So we're getting an error because I have deleted some file the page that modular CSS, but we still
referring to that font inside here inside the page that just so I'm going to delete this one.
So let's, let's delete everything here inside the main.
Tag.
So I'm going to delete everything.
And instead, I'm going to have ah1 tag.
Just saying home.
K Now inside the browser, we see that home here with the big which is the H one tag.
And.
For the layout.
Layout is the file that is going to cover the pages and other pages as well, because it's going to
cover a children.
And in this file you can add your header everything that is common.
For example, in our in our final version, you can see that even you go to different website.
For example, if I go to this page, we see this change, but the header, the number and the this search
button is common.
It didn't change.
So we're going to put these three components inside the layout.
So this is an if I create any other pages, for example, this page is the movie.
We still have the same layout.
For example, if you go to about page.
Uh, we're going to have the about page, so let's refresh the page.
So we have the about page.
This section is different here, but the other section is still remain the same.
So for example, you can do the dark mode or other things.
So we're going to this use this layout layout is actually new and it's just for the next year's 13.
And also it has a hit.
So everything related to the head tag can be inside this file.
For example, the title is now Create Next App and we can see it here, Create next app at the top of
our project.
So you can just change this one.
For example, we just say IMDB.
Claw.
MTP is this this way So IMDB clone now the hit the title is changed to IMDB, so this is going to apply
to all the pages because the head tag is in everything.
All right.
So it's.
And.
Let's change the metadata tags, for example, this metadata tag sets the width of the screen to devices,
the screens width.
And for example, if you have a mobile screen, the screen with the width of the browser would be as
smaller.
Then you have the initial level zoom level, which is 100%.
Then we have the description metadata tag and the content is generated by Create Next app.
I can change this one.
For example, I just say this is the item to be.
I am rt the clone.
Website.
So now.
If you go to.
And open the HTML here.
I'm going to use an extension in Chrome called Quick Source Viewer.
So if you click on this extension, you can see the HTML of our project and inside the HTML.
Let me zoom this a little bit.
We can see that we have a metadata tag.
With the description and the content.
This is the IMDB clone.
Okay.
So and also for other pages, for example, if you create a page four about, you can have a different
head data.
So this is going to help you for your SEO.
So you can have a different SEO metadata tag for each each of your pages, which was not available for
the React applications before.
So this is the new feature from the next DJs.
The other things we want to do is to, as you can see, we are using the fab icon inside this public
folder.
The public folder is the things that the user x have access in the browser.
So your files, like the images or fab icons, goes to this folder.
These three things we don't need, we can delete them.
For the Vatican.
Now we are using this fab icon, which is the logo of the Verso.
We can change the fab icon.
I use the website.
I just searched your fabric on generator.
In the search result.
We go to this website Fabricant dot io.
So in this website Fabricant IO we go to generator.
So I'm going to click on generator.
All right.
So now, as you can see, the text is F and the fab icon is showing F.
For example, our website is IMDB, so we can just use the little AI.
That's a small AI.
You can change the color.
For example, I want to choose this color.
Or background for the.
Inside.
I want to use the color white.
And you can choose it to be rounded circle or anything like that.
So I'm going to choose circle and I'm going to download this.
This is going to give you a zip file.
It has.
It has a bunch of files, but the files you need is just this file there.
Fabric contact iso.
So I'm going to.
Drag this one.
Bring it to my.
Desktop and I'm going to drag it again and bring it to this public folder and put it here.
I'm going to replace it with the previous one.
Because it has the same name.
So now if we open it again, we should see a different one.
So let's open it and see it.
So as you can see, the icon is now different.
So now if you go back to our website here and if you refresh the page, we should see a different fabric
at the top.
So let's close this fabric on generator.
And this one.
So you can see now the Fabricant is different.
So just we have cleaned our project.
The other things we don't need is this page is folder.
We can just completely delete it because we are using the app directory.
I'm just going to delete the pages here and inside the layout dot is x.
We can delete this head as well because we are going to use this head to gsx.
So I'm going to delete all these explanations.
So now that we have completed our template and we have installed the next yes, let's add this font
to the GitHub.
So later when we are deploying the website to Versal, we can use GitHub to simply add it.
So let's stop the server here.
It stopped the server using counter C.
And we pressed why, if you already have the GitHub you can use git.
In it to initialize a git repository.
And then you can just add everything to it.
Using it at all.
And you can create a message by using git commit dash.
Hm.
And the message would be, for example, install.
Next, James.
So if we press enter now, it's ready to add everything to our GitHub repository.
So we need to go to GitHub.com and create the a new GitHub repository.
So I just go to GitHub.
So I search for GitHub and in the search result, I'm going to go to the GitHub.com.
This one is completely free as well and I highly recommend you have a GitHub account because you can
just track what you do inside your projects.
And also you can easily deploy your projects to places like Versal.
So if you have an account, you should see your user profile picture here.
So for me, it's just I'm signing with my account.
Now you can click on the plus icon here to create a new repository once you click on that.
You can just create a new repository.
You can put the repository name.
For example, I just choose IMDB, which is available for me.
And the description is going to be.
I am deeply.
Clone.
Using next.
Yes.
And.
Tailwind.
Yes.
Let me fix this one.
I am.
DB you can create this one.
You can make it private or you can keep it public if you want.
Other people see your projects.
As I'm sharing this one with you, you can just come to this GitHub repository and compare your code
with mine.
So I just keep it public and just click here on Create Repository.
So now this is going to give you the commands you needed to upload your GitHub GitHub.
We already done the first three parts.
Initialization, adding and the commit.
Now we need to get use the get removed add and this address to show the address to the here.
So I'm going to paste this code here.
And then we need to create a branch.
So we paste it.
Second one.
And finally, the last one is pushing everything to get up.
So we're going to use the git push.
Dash you origin.
So now everything is uploaded to the GitHub.
So if you refresh this page now you should see all.
Your code inside this page, for example, the public C folder and etc..
Now you have two comments.
The first one is automatically created using next year's app, but the first one.
Is installed next year is created by us.
Now let me review what we have done.
We have deleted a couple of files.
We have empty the globals that CSS.
And inside the hideous ex.
We have changed the title and also the description inside the layout that G6 and also I have deleted
some head tag because we don't need it inside the next 13.
Inside the page that gsx I have deleted everything and just replace it with the h one tag saying home.
And also we have deleted the file page that modular CSS and these folder pages.
Yeah, that was it for installation of the next DJs.
For each section.
I'm going to explain the code first, and then I'm going to review the code using GitHub.
So we're going to review each code two times.
So this is the way I teach coding.
So in the next section we're going to install Tailwind CSS and add its dependency to work with the Nexus
13.
So see in the next section for the installation of Tailwind CSS.